README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">BookQuest</h1>
<p align="center">Hybrid Search Engine for Books</p>

This repository contains code and resources to run a hybrid (semantic and full-text) search engine for books.
It uses text embeddings and supports harvesting book metadata from various sources, using international standards
like MARC21 and ONIX 3.

## Technologies

- Spring Boot & PostgreSQL
- **[Multilingual-E5-small](https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small)**: Pre-trained model used for 
  generating text embeddings.
- **[pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector)**: A PostgreSQL extension for storing and querying vectors, used as
  the vector store in the search engine.

## Getting Started

Follow [Run as Docker Compose](#run-as-docker-compose) *or* [Run as Spring Boot](#run-as-spring-boot) to configure and
run the application.

### Run as Docker Compose

Configure one or more gateways for harvesting metadata by editing
```compose-app.yml```.

Available options:

- oai-pmh
- bibbi
- bokbasen
 
**Example:**

```
SCHEDULER_ENABLED: true
SCHEDULER_INITIAL_DELAY: 5
SCHEDULER_FIXED_DELAY: 3600
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_ENABLED: true
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_SERVICE_URI: https://oai.aja.bs.no/mlnb
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_TTL: 5
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_MAPPER: default
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_VERB: ListRecords
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_METADATA_PREFIX: marc21
```

Run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
docker compose -f compose-app.yml up 
```

**Note**: 
The first run may take some time as it will download the necessary embedding models. Once the models are in place, the
application will be ready for use.

### Run as Spring Boot

Configure one or more gateways for harvesting metadata by editing
```application/src/main/resources/application.yaml```.

Available options:

- oai-pmh
- bibbi
- bokbasen

**Example:**

```yaml
scheduler:
  enabled: true
  initial-delay: 5
  fixed-delay: 3600

harvesting:
  oai-pmh:
    gateways:
      - enabled: true
        service-uri: https://oai.aja.bs.no/mlnb
        ttl: 5
        mapper: default
        verb: ListRecords
        metadata-prefix: marc21
        set:
```

Run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
docker compose up
```

Open and run the application in your IDE or run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
./gradlew bootRun
```

**Note**:
The first run may take some time as it will download the necessary embedding models. Once the models are in place, the
application will be ready for use.

## Use the search engine

The hybrid search is based on Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF), an algorithm used for combining multiple ranked lists of 
search results to improve the overall ranking quality, in this case to combine full-text and semantic search results.

### GUI

Visit http://localhost:8080 in the browser and watch the results as the metadata harvesting progresses. The 
welcome page shows the last modified books (that has a description and cover image). Enter a query for hybrid search. 
Clicking on the title of a book will show semantically similar books.

### API (build your own frontend)

Visit http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html in the browser to read and/or download the OpenAPI specification.

## Gateway

The gateway abstracts away the details of the external services and transforms metadata from the external services into
a common model. The application supports three gateways: OAI-PMH (MARC21), Bokbasen (ONIX) and Bibbi. Custom mappers can
be implemented as needed.

### OAI-PMH

The OAI-PMH gateway harvests metadata using the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). It
supports retrieving bibliographic data in MARC21 format.

- **[OAI-PMH](https://www.openarchives.org/pmh/)**
- **[MARC21](https://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/)**

Additional documentation for OAI-PMH from Biblioteksentralen (https://www.bibsent.no/):

- **[Ája OAI-PMH API](https://doc.aja.bs.no/hente/bibliografiske-data/oai-pmh.html)** (requires no authentication)

Additional documentation for OAI-PMH from Nasjonalbiblioteket (https://www.nb.no/):

- **[Nasjonalbibliografien og spesialbibliografiene OAI-PMH API](https://bibliotekutvikling.no/kunnskapsorganisering/metadata-fra-nasjonalbiblioteket/hosting-av-nasjonalbibliografien-og-spesialbibliografien/)** (requires no authentication)

### Bokbasen

The Bokbasen gateway uses the ONIX format for metadata, commonly employed in the publishing industry. This is
particularly useful for harvesting data from large-scale book vendors.

- **[ONIX 3.1](https://www.editeur.org/93/Release-3.0-and-3.1-Downloads/)**

Additional documentation for ONIX from Bokbasen (https://www.bokbasen.no/):

- **[Bokbasen ONIX API](https://bokbasen.jira.com/wiki/spaces/api/pages/67993632/ONIX)** (requires authentication)

### Bibbi

The Bibbi gateway is used for integrating with the Bibbi metadata service. The gateway uses a format based on
Schema.org.

- **[Schema.org](https://schema.org/)**

Additional documentation for Bibbi from Biblioteksentralen (https://www.bibsent.no/):

- **[Bibbi Metadata REST API](https://bibliografisk.bs.no/#/)** (requires no authentication)

## Text classification

Instructions for extracting a dataset for fine-tuning a BERT-based model for multi-label classification of book
reviews: https://github.com/torleifg/multi-label-bert-classifier

```shell
psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U username -d postgres
```

Extract example dataset using genre and form as labels.

```postgresql
create temp table temp_export as
select
  concat(metadata->>'title', '. ', metadata->>'description') as text,
  jsonb_agg(distinct genre_terms->>'term' order by genre_terms->>'term') as labels
from
  book,
  lateral jsonb_array_elements(metadata->'genreAndForm') as genre_terms
where
  metadata->>'description' is not null
  and metadata->>'description' <> ''
  and length(metadata->>'description') > 200
  and metadata->'genreAndForm' is not null
  and jsonb_array_length(metadata->'genreAndForm') > 0
  and genre_terms->>'language' = 'nob'
group by text;
```

```shell
\copy temp_export to '~/dataset.csv' with csv header delimiter ';';
```

Commit message:

Java 25 (#74)
* Refactoring

* Replace gradle plugin for running xjc

* Java 25 & gradle 9

* Update dockerfile

* Update readme

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">BookQuest</h1>
<p align="center">Hybrid Search Engine for Books</p>

This repository contains code and resources to run a hybrid (semantic and full-text) search engine for books.
It uses text embeddings and supports harvesting book metadata from various sources, using international standards
like MARC21 and ONIX 3.

## Technologies

- Spring Boot & PostgreSQL
- **[Multilingual-E5-small](https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small)**: Pre-trained model used for 
  generating text embeddings.
- **[pgvector](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector)**: A PostgreSQL extension for storing and querying vectors, used as
  the vector store in the search engine.

## Prerequisites

- Java 25
- Docker

## Getting Started

Follow [Run as Docker Compose](#run-as-docker-compose) *or* [Run as Spring Boot](#run-as-spring-boot) to configure and
run the application.

### Run as Docker Compose

Configure one or more gateways for harvesting metadata by editing
```compose-app.yml```.

Available options:

- oai-pmh
- bibbi
- bokbasen
 
**Example:**

```
SCHEDULER_ENABLED: true
SCHEDULER_INITIAL_DELAY: 5
SCHEDULER_FIXED_DELAY: 3600
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_ENABLED: true
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_SERVICE_URI: https://oai.aja.bs.no/mlnb
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_TTL: 5
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_MAPPER: default
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_VERB: ListRecords
HARVESTING_OAI_PMH_GATEWAYS_0_METADATA_PREFIX: marc21
```

Run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
docker compose -f compose-app.yml up 
```

**Note**: 
The first run may take some time as it will download the necessary embedding models. Once the models are in place, the
application will be ready for use.

### Run as Spring Boot

Configure one or more gateways for harvesting metadata by editing
```application/src/main/resources/application.yaml```.

Available options:

- oai-pmh
- bibbi
- bokbasen

**Example:**

```yaml
scheduler:
  enabled: true
  initial-delay: 5
  fixed-delay: 3600

harvesting:
  oai-pmh:
    gateways:
      - enabled: true
        service-uri: https://oai.aja.bs.no/mlnb
        ttl: 5
        mapper: default
        verb: ListRecords
        metadata-prefix: marc21
        set:
```

Run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
docker compose up
```

Open and run the application in your IDE or run the following command in the project directory:

```shell
./gradlew bootRun
```

**Note**:
The first run may take some time as it will download the necessary embedding models. Once the models are in place, the
application will be ready for use.

## Use the search engine

The hybrid search is based on Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF), an algorithm used for combining multiple ranked lists of 
search results to improve the overall ranking quality, in this case to combine full-text and semantic search results.

### GUI

Visit http://localhost:8080 in the browser and watch the results as the metadata harvesting progresses. The 
welcome page shows the last modified books (that has a description and cover image). Enter a query for hybrid search. 
Clicking on the title of a book will show semantically similar books.

### API (build your own frontend)

Visit http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html in the browser to read and/or download the OpenAPI specification.

## Gateway

The gateway abstracts away the details of the external services and transforms metadata from the external services into
a common model. The application supports three gateways: OAI-PMH (MARC21), Bokbasen (ONIX) and Bibbi. 

**Custom mappers can be implemented as needed.** Look into the Config class of the relevant gateway. 

### OAI-PMH

The OAI-PMH gateway harvests metadata using the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). It
supports retrieving bibliographic data in MARC21 format.

- **[OAI-PMH](https://www.openarchives.org/pmh/)**
- **[MARC21](https://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/)**

Additional documentation for OAI-PMH from Biblioteksentralen (https://www.bibsent.no/):

- **[Ája OAI-PMH API](https://doc.aja.bs.no/hente/bibliografiske-data/oai-pmh.html)** (requires no authentication)

Additional documentation for OAI-PMH from Nasjonalbiblioteket (https://www.nb.no/):

- **[Nasjonalbibliografien og spesialbibliografiene OAI-PMH API](https://bibliotekutvikling.no/kunnskapsorganisering/metadata-fra-nasjonalbiblioteket/hosting-av-nasjonalbibliografien-og-spesialbibliografien/)** (requires no authentication)

### Bokbasen

The Bokbasen gateway uses the ONIX format for metadata, commonly employed in the publishing industry. This is
particularly useful for harvesting data from large-scale book vendors.

- **[ONIX 3.1](https://www.editeur.org/93/Release-3.0-and-3.1-Downloads/)**

Additional documentation for ONIX from Bokbasen (https://www.bokbasen.no/):

- **[Bokbasen ONIX API](https://bokbasen.jira.com/wiki/spaces/api/pages/67993632/ONIX)** (requires authentication)

### Bibbi

The Bibbi gateway is used for integrating with the Bibbi metadata service. The gateway uses a format based on
Schema.org.

- **[Schema.org](https://schema.org/)**

Additional documentation for Bibbi from Biblioteksentralen (https://www.bibsent.no/):

- **[Bibbi Metadata REST API](https://bibliografisk.bs.no/#/)** (requires no authentication)

## Text classification

Instructions for extracting a dataset for fine-tuning a BERT-based model for multi-label classification of book
reviews: https://github.com/torleifg/multi-label-bert-classifier

```shell
psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U username -d postgres
```

Extract example dataset using genre and form as labels.

```postgresql
create temp table temp_export as
select
  concat(metadata->>'title', '. ', metadata->>'description') as text,
  jsonb_agg(distinct genre_terms->>'term' order by genre_terms->>'term') as labels
from
  book,
  lateral jsonb_array_elements(metadata->'genreAndForm') as genre_terms
where
  metadata->>'description' is not null
  and metadata->>'description' <> ''
  and length(metadata->>'description') > 200
  and metadata->'genreAndForm' is not null
  and jsonb_array_length(metadata->'genreAndForm') > 0
  and genre_terms->>'language' = 'nob'
group by text;
```

```shell
\copy temp_export to '~/dataset.csv' with csv header delimiter ';';
```
